README.md, before:

# Arduino DSC code for Teensy 3.1
Forked from [mdw123/arduino-dsc](https://github.com/mdw123/arduino-dsc)

## Basic Features
I wanted to do my own digital setting circles (DSC) for my [Apertura AD12](http://www.opticsmart.com/telescopes/dobsonian-telescopes/apertura-ad12-dobsonian-reflector-telescope.html).
The main goals were:
 * Nice PCB
 * Support for at least 10K resolution via quadurature decoding
 * WiFi to allow interfacing via my Apple iPad (unfortunately, Apple doesn't allow 
   connecting to random bluetooth devices)
 * Supporting at least SkySafari

That will be version 1.0.  Future versions will hopefully support other features,
but for now that will be enough for it to work for me.

## Why Teensy 3.1
Why the [Teensy 3.1](http://pjrc.com/store/teensy31.html) and not Arduino?
 * It is *much* faster then the Arduino Uno (72Mhz vs 16Mhz)
 * It supports interrupts on all digital pins which allows for higher resolution encoders
 * Is 3.3V for interfacing with the WiFly module, but is 5V tollerant for interfacing
    with encoders
 * Has 3 hardware serial ports making interfacing with the WiFly easy
 * It is cheaper ($20/ea)
 * More memory & flash allows for future expansion (standalone DSC database?)

# Original mdw123/arduino-dsc Readme

## July 27, 2013
### Changes
* Forked from [mrosseel/arduino-dsc](https://github.com/mrosseel/arduino-dsc)
* Added circuit info for AMT-102 encoders + WiFly RN-XV
* Added program to initialize the WiFly as an access point
* Removed LCD display from original project
* Changed the carriage return/linefeeds to work with SkySafari and Deep Sky Browser
* Removed commands other than 'Q' to return encoder positions due to compatibility issues with SkySafari and DSB
* Removed timer
* Upped the baud rate to 112500
* Changed do the F??? what you want license to MIT, which I guess is whatever the F??? * wanted to do.

### Library dependencies for DSC
* digitalWriteFast: Use the included version, patched in the forked repo.
* PinChangeInt: This version of the encoder software has been tested with [2.19 beta](https://code.google.com/p/arduino-pinchangeint/downloads/list).
* 

### Library dependencies for wifi_setup
* [WiFlySerial](http://sourceforge.net/projects/arduinowifly/files/)

### Instructions

#### Initializing the WiFly
WiFlySerial requires SoftwareSerial to provide the most reliable setup of the WiFly RN-XV. Build a circuit with the RN-XV connected to pins 8 and 9 of your Arduino and run the wifly_setup program. This initializes your WiFly so that it can be connected to the hardware serial pins and used as if it was a physical serial cable.

Initialization is complete when the LED on your Arduino flashes on and off in a 1s cycle.

Because this application initalizes the WiFly for 112500 BPS, you can't run it twice the way it is currently written without resetting the rate on the WiFly. This can be accomplished by applying 3.3V to the reset line on your WiFly.

You can test that initialization was succesful by finding a new wifi network called telescope-XX where XX is the last two letters of your MAC address.

#### Using the DSC application
To use the DSC application, initialize your WiFly, build the circuit per the drawing included in this repository. Connect your device to the telescope-xx network, which provides DHCP and will appropriately initialize your networking for access to the telescope. Configure your application to connect to the IP address 10.0.0.1 on port 4030.

My encoders both provide 8192 ticks, and my azimuth encoder is installed such that it rotates 'opposite' what a typical application would expect so it must be configured to use -8192 ticks. Your encoders and installation may vary.

Commit message:

Mark board v0.2 Add a warning so people don't think it's ready for prime-time.

README.md, after:

# Arduino DSC code for Teensy 3.1
Forked from [mdw123/arduino-dsc](https://github.com/mdw123/arduino-dsc)

## Important Note

This project is still heavily in development.  The PCB design is completely 
untested so far and I haven't even tried compiling the code yet!  So don't
be going and ordering this board off of OSHPark/etc just yet... unless of 
course you want to help test!  If so, then please contact me.

## Basic Features
I wanted to do my own digital setting circles (DSC) for my [Apertura AD12](http://www.opticsmart.com/telescopes/dobsonian-telescopes/apertura-ad12-dobsonian-reflector-telescope.html).
The main goals were:
 * Nice PCB
 * Support for at least 10K resolution via quadurature decoding
 * WiFi to allow interfacing via my Apple iPad (unfortunately, Apple doesn't allow 
   connecting to random bluetooth devices)
 * Supporting at least SkySafari

That will be version 1.0.  Future versions will hopefully support other features,
but for now that will be enough for it to work for me.

## Why Teensy 3.1
Why the [Teensy 3.1](http://pjrc.com/store/teensy31.html) and not Arduino?
 * It is *much* faster then the Arduino Uno (72Mhz vs 16Mhz)
 * It supports interrupts on all digital pins which allows for higher resolution encoders
 * Is 3.3V for interfacing with the WiFly module, but is 5V tollerant for interfacing
    with encoders
 * Has 3 hardware serial ports making interfacing with the WiFly easy
 * It is cheaper ($20/ea)
 * More memory & flash allows for future expansion (standalone DSC database?)

# Original mdw123/arduino-dsc Readme

## July 27, 2013
### Changes
* Forked from [mrosseel/arduino-dsc](https://github.com/mrosseel/arduino-dsc)
* Added circuit info for AMT-102 encoders + WiFly RN-XV
* Added program to initialize the WiFly as an access point
* Removed LCD display from original project
* Changed the carriage return/linefeeds to work with SkySafari and Deep Sky Browser
* Removed commands other than 'Q' to return encoder positions due to compatibility issues with SkySafari and DSB
* Removed timer
* Upped the baud rate to 112500
* Changed do the F??? what you want license to MIT, which I guess is whatever the F??? * wanted to do.

### Library dependencies for DSC
* digitalWriteFast: Use the included version, patched in the forked repo.
* PinChangeInt: This version of the encoder software has been tested with [2.19 beta](https://code.google.com/p/arduino-pinchangeint/downloads/list).
* 

### Library dependencies for wifi_setup
* [WiFlySerial](http://sourceforge.net/projects/arduinowifly/files/)

### Instructions

#### Initializing the WiFly
WiFlySerial requires SoftwareSerial to provide the most reliable setup of the WiFly RN-XV. Build a circuit with the RN-XV connected to pins 8 and 9 of your Arduino and run the wifly_setup program. This initializes your WiFly so that it can be connected to the hardware serial pins and used as if it was a physical serial cable.

Initialization is complete when the LED on your Arduino flashes on and off in a 1s cycle.

Because this application initalizes the WiFly for 112500 BPS, you can't run it twice the way it is currently written without resetting the rate on the WiFly. This can be accomplished by applying 3.3V to the reset line on your WiFly.

You can test that initialization was succesful by finding a new wifi network called telescope-XX where XX is the last two letters of your MAC address.

#### Using the DSC application
To use the DSC application, initialize your WiFly, build the circuit per the drawing included in this repository. Connect your device to the telescope-xx network, which provides DHCP and will appropriately initialize your networking for access to the telescope. Configure your application to connect to the IP address 10.0.0.1 on port 4030.

My encoders both provide 8192 ticks, and my azimuth encoder is installed such that it rotates 'opposite' what a typical application would expect so it must be configured to use -8192 ticks. Your encoders and installation may vary.
